# BinaryCalculator

## Assignment Essay
---
In Program 1, I have implemented a simple binary calculation program that takes in both a decimal number of choice and a specified bit system as a decimal number as well. In the method titled DecToBin, I compute the binary equivalent of a decimal number, write it to an array, and print the array with the help of the printArr helper function. The functions titled OnesComp and TwosComp flip the bits and add one bit to the binary number respectively. These bitwise operations are the fundamental operations for converting decimal numbers into their binary, one’s, and two’s complement equivalents without the use of external libraries like <bitset> for example.

Besides loop variables, the only named variables are pointers. By using pointer variables to dynamically allocate memory, the program can store results without knowing the size in advance. This ability allows for more flexibility and efficiency of the code. Also, this approach prevents from having to preallocate memory which is another benefit to using pointer variables in the program. It was difficult at first to understand how and why pointer variables were required for this program, but I now understand the simplicity in terms of memory allocation and the efficiency they provide to the functionality of the program itself. After working out this challenge, realizing the benefit of proper memory management in compiled languages like C and C++ gives me greater confidence with how languages use the memory of a machine to execute programs.

One of the most difficult challenges besides implementing and using proper pointer variables was understanding the syntax and semantics of the <iostream> library. I see its simplicity syntactically, but the hardest part of using these commands was when I was writing the input validation functions for the decimal and bit system numbers. It was hard to grasp how cin flags work, using the cin operator in conditional statements and expressions, and printing variables between string value output. By way of online research, I eventually arrived at some solutions to the issues I was running into when I purposefully entered in bad input. With the use of cin.ignore() and cin.clear(), understanding the purpose of flags became a lot more apparent to me.

Overall this programming assignment was a challenging, but equally interesting experience. Being able to work on a compiled language finally is very relieving considering that I’ll have to take Operating Systems next year. Diving deeping into memory management was also a huge plus in terms of my interview practice. All in all, I enjoyed this program and the assignment provided a healthy level of difficulty to remain interested in finding the solution and learning from my mistakes in the process. I look forward to more rewarding future assignments in this class.
